now let me tell you about the latest in
terms of on the ground there in Gaza
because the UN Regional relief agency
Ana says that hundreds of thousands of
Palestinians have displaced in the last
12 hours nearly a million almost half
the territory's population in the last
week let me tell you more from that
statement because there is more detail
coming in they're talking about uh the
Israeli order as well to Le leave that
northern part of the territory uh this
the full statement there that's
available online let me take you through
it because there are significant new
detail they've called on the Israeli
authorities to protect all civilians
who've been Sheltering in un under
premises across the Gaza Strip including
those in Northern Gaza and Gaza City
despite the order they say for more than
a million people to actually move they
say that many people pregn pregnant
women children older people people with
disabilities will not be able to flee
the area they have no choice they say
and they must be protected at all times
Wars have rules this statement says
civilians hospitals schools clinics and
un premises cannot be targeted we're
sparing no effort to Advocate with
parties to the conflicts to meet their
obligations under international law to
protect civilians including those
seeking refuge in H shelters and it goes
on finally to say at the end of this
statement this is unprecedented what
we're seeing this war should be no
exception protection of civilians and
civilian infrastructure including un
buildings applies to this conflict too
so uh a long statement there from ANA
about their assessment on the ground in
terms of the people displaced but very
clearly articulating that many people
won't be able to to move won't be able
to follow that Israeli instruction and
absolutely underlying the point that
they say that un premises cannot be
targeted if those people do not move and
follow that deadline order from the
Israelis well uh let's reflect more
about what is happening on the ground
because Mahmud shalabi is in Gaza is the
Gaza director for medical aid for
Palestinians he spoke to us about what
life is actually there in at on the
ground at the moment life is really
miserable and dire the situation is
really tense where I live I live in the
north of Gaza and uh one of the
governorates that the Israelis have
asked uh the peoples to flee from uh
yesterday I am one of the people who did
not flee um uh their home and I refuse
to do so because there is no place that
is safe in Gaza even in the southern
parts of Gaza where many of my
colleagues have went and where many of
internally displaced people are located
right now it's really unsafe just
yesterday at around 400 p.m. one truck
full of internally displaced people was
direct directly targeted by the Israelis
and 71 people were killed in that Direct
Hit of internally displaced people so
there is no place that is currently safe
uh right now I am talking to you uh
because I have a generator that we
bought years ago and I managed to have
some fuel uh leftt over fuel from like
the fuel station where I live so I am
one of the few ones who can actually
connect to the outside world and tell
you about the situation right now in
Gaza we do believe that it is unsafe to
move right now to any place in the
southern parts of Gaza as I told you
there have been uh many air strikes uh
uh since yesterday and early this
morning uh one of the areas of the safe
areas in the south of Gaza Strip is
kanun uh a colleague of mine Liv lives
there he has hosted six families of
internally displaced
people uh this morning at 7 A.M an air
strike happened next to his home and
they are trying to extract dead bodies
from under the rubble so as I told you
there is no place that is safe right now
uh yesterday we were also given as
Palestinians a safe passage from like
the early sunlight until like around uh
like 6:00 p.m. or something and that
happened during the time in addition uh
if you also uh see what's happenening
during the night in those areas in the
southern parts of Gaza there have been
many air strikes and many houses
destroyed over the top of their
residents there have been no warnings
such as like in previous escalations
where they would throw a you know drone
missile on top of a building to warn the
citizens that they have to flee their
homes nothing uh yes yesterday one of my
colleagues at Medical Aid for
Palestinians his name is Muhammad his
house was destroyed while he was in
there with his six children and wife
they managed to escape miraculously but
they lost some of the extended family
members they lost he lost his cousin and
uh the situation has been really dire he
he stayed in a shop like the neighbors
opened the shop for them to stay there
during the night and at the early
sunlight he went to shifa the largest
hospital in Gaza Strip he described the
situation for me the the hospital it's
self is full of internally displaced
people because they don't find any other
place that is safe to go to just a
snapshot of the latest on the ground
there in Gaza